Practice Questions on Basics of OOPS
1.	Create a class with a method that prints "This is parent class" and its subclass with another method that prints "This is child class". Now, create an object for each of the class and call

1 - method of parent class by object of parent class
2 - method of child class by object of child class
3 - method of parent class by object of child class

2.	Create a class named 'Member' having the following members:
Data members
1 - Name
2 - Age
3 - Phone number
4 - Address
5 - Salary
It also has a method named 'printSalary' which prints the salary of the members.

Two classes 'Employee' and 'Manager' inherits the 'Member' class. The 'Employee' and 'Manager' classes have data members 'specialization' and 'department' respectively. Now, assign name, age, phone number, address and salary to an employee and a manager by making an object of both of these classes and print the same.

3.	Write a program to print the names of students by creating a Student class. If no name is passed while creating an object of Student class, then the name should be "Unknown", otherwise the name should be equal to the String value passed while creating object of Student class.

4.	Write a program to print the area of a rectangle by creating a class named 'Area' having two methods. First method named as 'setDim' takes length and breadth of rectangle as parameters and the second method named as 'getArea' returns the area of the rectangle. Length and breadth of rectangle are entered through keyboard.
5.	Create a class named 'Student' with String variable 'name' and integer variable 'roll_no'. Assign the value of roll_no as '2' and that of name as "John" by creating an object of the class Student.
6.	Assign and print the roll number, phone number and address of two students having names "Sam" and "John" respectively by creating two objects of class 'Student'.
7.	Write a program to print the area and perimeter of a triangle having sides of 3, 4 and 5 units by creating a class named 'Triangle' without any parameter in its constructor.
8.	Write a program to print the area and perimeter of a triangle having sides of 3, 4 and 5 units by creating a class named 'Triangle' with constructor having the three sides as its parameters.
9.	Write a program to print the area of two rectangles having sides (4,5) and (5,8) respectively by creating a class named 'Rectangle' with a method named 'Area' which returns the area and length and breadth passed as parameters to its constructor.
10.	Write a program to print the area of a rectangle by creating a class named 'Area' taking the values of its length and breadth as parameters of its constructor and having a method named 'returnArea' which returns the area of the rectangle. Length and breadth of rectangle are entered through keyboard.
11.	Print the average of three numbers entered by user by creating a class named 'Average' having a method to calculate and print the average.
12.	Print the sum, difference and product of two complex numbers by creating a class named 'Complex' with separate methods for each operation whose real and imaginary parts are entered by user.
13.	create a class named 'Rectangle' with two data members 'length' and 'breadth' and two methods to print the area and perimeter of the rectangle respectively. Its constructor having parameters for length and breadth is used to initialize length and breadth of the rectangle. Let class 'Square' inherit the 'Rectangle' class with its constructor having a parameter for its side (suppose s) calling the constructor of its parent class as 'super(s,s)'. Print the area and perimeter of a rectangle and a square.
14.	Create a class named 'Shape' with a method to print "This is This is shape". Then create two other classes named 'Rectangle', 'Circle' inheriting the Shape class, both having a method to print "This is rectangular shape" and "This is circular shape" respectively. Create a subclass 'Square' of 'Rectangle' having a method to print "Square is a rectangle". Now call the method of 'Shape' and 'Rectangle' class by the object of 'Square' class.